feat: Add specification of the import package format (#97)
keptn/spec: import_package.md

# Import package

> * An import package is a .zip file containing a **manifest.yaml** that describes additional 
>   contents and actions that should be carried out when processing the package.
> * A valid import package must contain all resource files that are referenced in the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An import package is a .zip file containing a **manifest.yaml** that describes additional 
  contents and actions that should be carried out when processing the package.
A valid import package must contain all resource files that are referenced in the 
```
I'd make this straight text rather than bullets

  **manifest.yaml**.

## Meta-data

* `apiVersion` is set to `v1beta1` 

> ## Tasks

Reviewer: Are these Keptn tasks as specified in the shipyard?  If not, do we really want to use this same term for something else?  What about calling them "actions"?

Author: These Task are specific to the import Endpoint and have nothing to do with the *shipyard.yaml*. You can have two different types of tasks, an API action that executes something and a resource task that upload resources to Keptn.

Reviewer: That's what I thought.  Which is why I am thinking that it would be nice if we could find a term other than "tasks".  Using the same term for different things makes for a lot of confusion -- like we have with the term "service".

Reviewer 2: @StackScribe renaming "tasks" to something else here is unfortunately not an option. I understand that it can cause confusion, but at the same time, "task" is not a special word for Keptn. It's a very universal English word, such as "start" and "stop". Also, I believe that by having a good documentation/spec, confusion can be avoided.

> * `tasks`: is a list of api actions and resource tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `tasks`: list of api actions and resource tasks.
```

> * `tasks`: is a list of api actions and resource tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `tasks`: list of api actions and resource tasks.
```
Does not need to be a full sentence.

Could be:
* actions: list of api and resource actions

>     * `id`: Each task must contain a unique **id** property that only contains upper-case, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `id`:  unique identifier of the task.  Must contain only upper-case, 
```

>        lower-case letters, digits and an underscore (`[A-Za-z0-9_]+`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       lower-case letters, digits or underscores (`[A-Za-z0-9_]+`)
```
For a spec, "an underscore" implies that the name can only contain a single underscore.  Is that what you want?

    * `type`: Must be either **api** or **resource**. All required properties of the specified
       type have to be implemented.
    * `name` *(optional)*: A human readable name for the action to easier identify the action
    * `context` *(optional)*: An optional context which can contain additional data for the 
      API action or resource task. A context must only contain string values and supports templating.

### API action
An API action is a task that interacts with a specific Keptn API endpoint. The JSON results of the endpoint

> will be stored in ` .Tasks.<task-id>.Response.<field>` and are accessible for all following tasks. The following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are stored in ` .Tasks.<task-id>.Response.<field>` and are accessible for all following tasks. The following
```

properties have to be implemented by an API action:

> * `action`: The name of the Keptn API endpoint that should be called. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `action`: The name of the Keptn API endpoint to call. 
```
I think you mean that it will be called; "should" could imply that it's optional

  See [Supported API endpoints](#supported-api-endpoints) for more information.

> * `payload`: A reference to a file that should be used as body payload for the API action.

Reviewer: Specify what the reference is, such as "full pathname (or just pathname or relative pathname) of the file that contains the body payload..."

Author: I added a short explanation in the next sentence that should clarify on what a reference is in that case. Maybe I should just replace "reference" with the full file path inside the import package?

>   If the action does not take a body, this property may be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the action does not take a body, this property is ignored.
```

### Resource task

> A resource task is a task that adds resources to Keptn. Similar to the API actions, the resources are also 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A resource task adds resources to Keptn. Similar to the API actions, the resources are also 
```
This could be "A resource action..."

processed by the templating engine. The following properties have to be defined for a resource task:

> * `resource`: A reference to a file in the import package

Reviewer: Again, precisely define what this reference is?

can be used in the payload. For more details see the [Templating](#templating) Section. 
The following API actions are supported: 

`keptn-api-v1-create-service`: Creates a service
```json
{
    "serviceName": "[[ .Context.service ]]"
}
```

`keptn-api-v1-uniform-create-secret`: Creates a secret
```json
{
    "scope":"[[ .Context.scope ]]",
    "data":{
        "token":"[[ .Context.token ]]"
    },
    "name":"[[ .Context.name ]]"
}
```

`keptn-api-v1-uniform-create-webhook-subscription`: Create a webhook subscription
```json
{
    "event": "[[ .Context.event ]]",
    "filter": {
        "projects": ["[[ .Context.project ]]"],              
        "services": ["[[ .Context.service ]]"],              
        "stages": ["[[ .Context.stage ]]"]             
    }
}
```

## Templating
If not mentioned otherwise all string values of the `context` property in a **task** can be used with the
templating syntax of the go templating engine. We use `[[` and `]]` as separator. 

### Global Inputs
The following inputs are currently available to be used in all places that support templating:
* `[[ .Inputs.project ]]`: Will be rendered to the current project name

### Tasks references

> After a task has been processed it does expose it's response and the already fully rendered context via the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a task has been processed, it exposes its response and the already fully rendered context via the 
```

            ],
            "properties": {
                "type": {
                    "const": "resource"
                },
                "resource": {
                    "type": "string"
                },
                "resourceUri": {
                    "type": "string"
                },
                "stage": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "pattern": "[a-z0-9_-]+"
                },
                "service": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "pattern": "[a-z0-9_-]+"
                }
            }
        },
    },
    "required": [
        "apiVersion"
    ],
    "properties": {
        "apiVersion": {
            "const": "v1beta1"
        },
        "tasks": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "oneOf": [
                    {
                        "$ref": "#/definitions/APIAction"
                    },
                    {
                        "$ref": "#/definitions/ResourceTask"
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

# Example
The following example contains the contents of an import package to create a service with 

> a webhook subscription for a given project. Besides the payload files from the [](#supported-api-endpoints)
> Section also the following **manifest.yaml** and **webhook.yaml** files have been used to produce
> the following ZIP-archive:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a webhook subscription for a given project. In addition to the payload files from the [](#supported-api-endpoints)
section, the **manifest.yaml** and **webhook.yaml** files have are also used to produce
the following ZIP-archive:
```

# Import package

> An import package is a .zip file containing a **manifest.yaml** that describes additional 

Reviewer 2: The first sentence suggests that it "just" contains manifest.yaml. I think we should slightly rephrase this, suggesting the user that it contains manifest.yaml and additional files, and then clarify in the next sentence that those additional files *should* be referenced in the manifest.yaml.

    * `id`:  unique identifier of the task.  Must contain only upper-case, 
       lower-case letters, digits or underscores (`[A-Za-z0-9_]+`)
    * `type`: Must be either **api** or **resource**. All required properties of the specified
       type have to be implemented.
    * `name` *(optional)*: A human readable name for the action to easier identify the action
    * `context` *(optional)*: An optional context which can contain additional data for the 
      API action or resource task. A context must only contain string values and supports templating.

### API action
An API action is a task that interacts with a specific Keptn API endpoint. The JSON results of the endpoint
are stored in ` .Tasks.<task-id>.Response.<field>` and are accessible for all following tasks. The following
properties have to be implemented by an API action:
* `action`: The name of the Keptn API endpoint to call. 
  See [Supported API endpoints](#supported-api-endpoints) for more information.
* `payload`: A reference to a file that should be used as body payload for the API action.
  If the action does not take a body, this property is ignored. The file reference has to be

>   specified as the full path within the provided import package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  specified as the relative path within the provided import package.
```

### Resource task

> A resource task adds resources to Keptn. Similar to the API actions, the resources are also 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A resource task adds resources to Keptn. Similar to the API actions, resources are also 
```

processed by the templating engine. The following properties have to be defined for a resource task:

> * `resource`: A reference (file path) to a file in the import package

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `resource`: A reference (relative file path) to a file in the import package
```

* `resourceUri`: The URI at which the file should be stored in Keptn
* `stage` *(optional)*: An optional stage name that can be specified
* `service` *(optional)*: An optional service that can be specified, if specified `stage` has to be non-empty

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can add that the resource tasks works similar to `keptn add-resource` and reference the docs (e.g., we didn't invent the parameters resource and resourceUri): https://keptn.sh/docs/0.18.x/reference/cli/commands/keptn_add-resource/

## Supported API endpoints
If not mentioned otherwise, all payloads support templating and all given properties of the `context` object
can be used in the payload. For more details see the [Templating](#templating) Section. 
The following API actions are supported: 

> `keptn-api-v1-create-service`: Creates a service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`keptn-api-v1-create-service`: Create a service
```

```json
{
    "serviceName": "[[ .Context.service ]]"
}
```

> `keptn-api-v1-uniform-create-secret`: Creates a secret

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`keptn-api-v1-uniform-create-secret`: Create a secret
```

```json
{
    "scope":"[[ .Context.scope ]]",
    "data":{
        "token":"[[ .Context.token ]]"
    },
    "name":"[[ .Context.name ]]"
}
```

`keptn-api-v1-uniform-create-webhook-subscription`: Create a webhook subscription
```json
{
    "event": "[[ .Context.event ]]",
    "filter": {
        "projects": ["[[ .Context.project ]]"],              
        "services": ["[[ .Context.service ]]"],              
        "stages": ["[[ .Context.stage ]]"]             
    }
}
```

## Templating
If not mentioned otherwise all string values of the `context` property in a **task** can be used with the

> templating syntax of the go templating engine. We use `[[` and `]]` as separator. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
templating syntax of the go templating engine. We use Golang templating with `[[` and `]]` as separator. 
```
